---
title: Leanintuit DNA
next_section: what-is-leanintuit.html
---
h1. What is this?

This site is an "open-source":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_source site describing how Leanintuit works and why.

"Leanintuit":http://www.leanintuit.com is a consulting company based in Toronto, Ontario.

By working together, and continuously experimenting with the way the company works, we figured out what works for us.

At some point Leanintuit grew to the point that we felt we needed to write down the way we worked. Right around that time we found out that "Crisp":https://www.crisp.se had open-sourced their company's "DNA" and it was an great match for the way we were working.
We decided to fork their "Github":https://github.com/crispab/crisp-dna project and use it as the base for our own DNA.

Want to start a similar org? See "How to clone the Crisp DNA":how-to-copy.html.

h1. Contents

h2. Driving principles

(these principles drive almost everything at Leanintuit)

* "What is Leanintuit":what-is-leanintuit.html - the purpose of the company
* "How Leanintuit works":how-leanintuit-works.html - summary of our model, and some driving principles.
* "Why this works":why-this-works.html - why this model has served us so well

h2. Core structure and practices

(although these are core to our model, they are mostly just consequences of the principles above)

* "Happiness index":happiness-index.html - how do we know if we are succeeding?
* "Ownership model":ownership-model.html - how do people become owners, and what ownership actually means?
* "Economic model":economic-model.html - how does money flow through the system?
* "How we make decisions":decisions.html - how do decisions get made when there is no manager?
* "Recruiting":recruiting.html - how do new people get in?
* "Communication":communication.html - how do we collaborate, sync, and improve?
* "Bun protocol":bun-protocol.html - how do we handle customer enquiries and route to the right consultant?
* "Dashboard":dashboard.html - how do we see the big picture?
* "Office team":office-team.html - how do we handle admin and day-to-day operations?
* "Board of directors":board.html -  So how does the BoD at Leanintuit work?
* "Our business":our-business.html - what type of work we do
* "Visions":visions.html - How to you get a bunch of autonomous consultants to agree on a vision? Answer: have several :o)
* "Sales":sales.html - how do we actually sell consultants?
* "Leanintuit unconference":unconference.html - how our bi-annual unconference works

h2. Supporting practices

(relevant stuff, but not core to our model)

* "Email conventions":email-conventions.html - how we get transparency without information overflow
* "Hand signals":hand-signals.html - how do have discussions in larger groups?
* "Industries that we avoid":industries-that-we-avoid.html - why we avoid certain industries
* "Hack summit":hack-summit.html - how we geek out together
* "Crisplets":crisplets.html - how do bottom-up initiatives get funded?
* "Conflict handling":conflict-handling.html - How do we make sure conflicts are constructive rather than destructive?
* "Contracts":contracts.html - our internal contracts for Crisp membership, ownership, etc.
* "Building competence":building-competence.html - how we learn from each other and improve
* "Courses and event production":courses-and-event-production.html - how do courses and events get produced?
* "Brand building":brand-building.html - how do we build the brand, both Crisp and personal brands?

h2. Meta

* "How to clone the Crisp DNA":how-to-copy.html




